CASE Sauna slots / Examples of Personalised user stories

**Summer resident’s sauna wishes\**
Marko has rented an apartment in the housing complex for the summer. He's an avid sauna enthusiast and would like to secure a regular slot for himself to be able to sauna on a weekly basis. To his disappointment, he realized that his landlord doesn't have a regular slot, and according to the housing complex rules, priority is given to those who hold regular slots when reserving summer slots. Unfortunately, all the slots have already been booked, but Marko notices that no one uses the sauna during a certain time slot. Changing sauna slots proves to be difficult, and half of the summer has passed before Marko finally gets a chance to use the sauna.

**Paying for sauna during holidays\**
The residents of Apartment A5 would like to give up their regular sauna slot for July due to their vacation. However, the apartment company doesn't have any formal notification system apart from a notice board to inform others about such matters. They inform the caretaker about their situation, but he wasn't aware of any residents who wanted to use the slot only occasionally. He only had information about residents who were in line for regular slots. In response, the residents of A5 posted a notice on the bulletin board, but no notice was put up before their departure. As a result, the residents ended up paying for the unused slot as per the usual procedure.

**Regular or irregular\**
Mikko moved into house B. After settling in, he wants to reserve a regular sauna slot. Not sure how to proceed, he decides to ask his neighbour. The neighbour provides him with the caretaker's number, which Mikko calls. He reaches the caretaker but unfortunately learns that the Thursday evening sauna slot he wanted is already booked. Even more unfortunate, there are no regular slots left at all. Mikko's only option is to reserve individual slots. He decides to book every Monday at 8:00 PM until the end of the year.

Mikko is a bit frustrated as he has to pay a high price for his "regular slot." However, he's content to realize that he can now peacefully sauna often, even extending beyond his reserved time, as no one else uses the sauna on Monday evenings after his slot. Still, he's a bit annoyed and intentionally leaves the place without cleaning up.

**Timing\**
An elderly gentleman, in his 80’ies, wants to book a single sauna slot for himself. He used to have a regular slot that he actively used, but due to his health issues, this is no longer possible. The elderly person contemplates how he could secure a slot for himself. Previously, there was a list where he could mark a checkbox. He asks a neighbour about the process. The neighbour instructs him to call the caretaker. The elderly person attempts to reach the caretaker. However, the caretaker doesn't answer the call on the first attempt. A little later, the elderly person calls again. The same thing– there's no answer to the call. He wonders how the arrangement can be so poor. At the same time, the caretaker is spreading sand in the slippery backyard and can't hear his phone ringing. The elderly person has decided that he is going to have a sauna today and heads to the municipal swimming hall. While sitting in the sauna at the swimming hall, his phone rings in his pants pocket as the caretaker is trying to reach him.

**Messy sauna\**
25-year-old Paavo invites his friend for a sauna evening over the weekend. He requests a separate slot for the B sauna and the club room from the caretaker. Paavo reaches the caretaker over the phone. The caretaker agrees to heat the sauna at the requested time and puts a reservation notice on the sauna door. A group of 7 friends arrives, who along the evening consume a significant amount of alcohol. This group doesn't clean up after themselves, leaving the sauna and the common area in a very messy state.

Kaisa and Pekka live in the building with their three preschool-aged children. They have a regular sauna slot in Sauna B on Fridays, which is the first slot of the day. When the family arrives at the sauna, they notice that it's in an exceptionally untidy condition. There is broken glass in the shower room. Concerned for their safety, the family decides not to use their slot. Pekka calls the caretaker and reports the broken glass and untidiness. The caretaker cannot clean the sauna area so quickly, but fortunately, the sauna A is available, and the family can use it.

 **Grandmother having small visitors\**
Terttu is a retiree and a grandmother. Terttu's grandchildren are coming to stay with her for the winter break in about a week, and they would like to go to the sauna with Grandma Terttu to warm up after their planned sledding trip. Terttu doesn't have a regular sauna slot. She decides to handle the matter in advance and calls the caretaker right away. However, the caretaker doesn't answer. Terttu calls again a few hours later, still no answer. Terttu decides to leave a message for the caretaker on the voicemail. In the message, she just leaves her name and asks the caretaker to call her back. A few days pass, and the caretaker hasn't returned her call. Terttu tries calling one more time, no response, and follows up with a call request via text message.

On the same day, Terttu meets her neighbour Kyllikki in the elevator and shares her sauna-related concerns. The ladies express their frustration about the caretaker's unavailability for a while. Kyllikki and her husband Pentti have a regular sauna slot. Kyllikki decides to offer Terttu and the kids their slot for the following week. Terttu is relieved and happy that things are working out and asks Kyllikki how much she should pay for the sauna slot. Kyllikki chuckles and says, "Just bring a coffee package.”

The next day Terttu brings a package of coffee and a rhubarb pie to Kyllikki and Pentti and stays for coffee when invited. The next morning, the caretaker finally calls Terttu back, but Terttu just remarks that the matter has already been resolved. Terttu and the grandchildren had a great day!

**Priorities\**
Maria is a student with a tight budget. However she has reserved a single sauna slot for next Friday to relax after a hard week. On Wednesday evening she happens to meet a nice boy and promises to meet him again on Friday. Only afterwards se remembered her sauna slot. She tries to reach the caretaker on Thursday, but there is no answer. What should she do! She has not got the phone number of the boy she just met.
