# h1 Should Tero wear a helmet?
### Summarize the following:
#### [Threat modeling manifesto, Braiterman et al 2020](https://www.threatmodelingmanifesto.org/)
- Threat modeling is very important to recognize what vulnerabilities a system might have, and anyone who is concerned about the privacy, safety and security of their system.
- The threat modeling manifesto should be used as a guideline to develop or refine a methodology that best fits ones needs.
- The manifesto follows a similar format to that of the agile manifesto by identifying values and principles.

Values: finding and fixing design issues, collaboration, understanding, threat modeling, refinement.

Principles: improve security and privacy through analysis, alignment with org's development practices, meaningfulness correlates with value to stakeholders, dialog to establish common understandings.

#### [Welcome to the Worlds Shortest Threat Modeling Course, Shostack 2022](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLCVhBqLDKoOOZqKt74QI4pbDUnXSQo0nf)
- Threat modeling is done to anticipate problems when it's inexpensive to deal with them.
- Threat modeling is a set of methods that allow us to think about security before any coding or concrete actions have begun, so that everything is as secure as we need it to be.
- Threat modeling can be simplified to four core questions; What are we working on? What can go wrong? What are we going to do about it? Did we do a good job?
- Sketching is important for threat modeling, it allows us to start putting our thoughts into actionable things.
- Record everything that is done, so that the documentation can be used when it is needed.
- Data flow diagrams are heavily associated with threat modeling since threats tend to follow data, they are simple to draw and use.
- Structure is needed to get a consistent result, since many people can work on the same threat model at different times.
- Threat modeling precedes risk management, and informs risk management

#### [Threat Modeling Cheat Sheet, OWASP CheatSheets Series Team 2021](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Threat_Modeling_Cheat_Sheet.html)
- Threat modeling is ideally done in the early stages of the Software Lifecycle Development Cycle, such as during the design phase.
- Use STRIDE (Spoofing, Tampering, Repudiation, Information Disclosure, Denial of Service, Elevation of Privilege) as a framework to identify threats.
- After identification, formulate and document actionable mitigation strategies, tailor them to the system's needs, for example: OWASP, ASVS or MITRE CWE.
- Review and validate the threat model periodically or when significant changes occur, for relevance and effectivity.
- Utilize tools that simplify and automate threat modeling, such as: OWASP's Threat Dragon or Microsoft Threat Modeling Tool. These tools make the process more accessible and less time-consuming.

#### Infosec scene: [Darknet Diaries Ep 22: Mini-Stories: Vol 1 on spotify](https://open.spotify.com/episode/6MeXRqElCoAe3vMDvoXcvT?si=SUGlvdwXTVSWQdcVmCxDWw)
I prompted Grok 2 ai to find out which episode would be most suitable and bite sized, for a novice to the subject such as myself, and was very pleased with the episode. The episode is 43 mins long and contains 3 short stories, stories too good for the podcast host to pass up on but not long enough for their own episode.
- The first story is about a penetration testing company that accidentally penetration tested the wrong company. The company that hired the penetration company for testing, let's call them Widgetmaker Co, since the nature of the company was to create an app for making widgets. Widgetmaker Co accidentally gave the wrong ip addresses inside (1) ip range, which so happened to be the ip adresses to another company, specified in extremely similar practices, let's call them Widgetmaker LLC. Widgetmaker Co wanted the penetration testing company to find the developmental versions of said app in their systems, but after vigorous penetration testing, they could not find it, but on the flip side, they got access to Widgetmaker LLC's email servers, were able to execute scripts remotely and take control of computers in said company. They basically illegally penetrated this LLC. After this came to light the penetration testing co and Widgetmaker Co swiftly started seeking legal advice, and working overtime. The time came to contact the LLC's head of security, they could not find his information anywhere but fortunately they had access to the email servers and got the information that way. The head of security was actually happy and asked for the report, but the lawyers and managers of all involved companies in this fiasco were not. The penetration testing company did not have to do penetration testing on the Co, and they were just happy that no legal action was taken.

This story I found almost hilarious, and what are the odds of something like this happening, that the very similarly named companies ip adress ranges were just one(1) ip point from each other, and that at no point, did the penetration testers connect the dots.
- The second story is about a person who works at a private company that does threat modeling and implementation for critical infrastructure in the US, for example nuclear power plants, water turbines, wind farms, etc. He was contacted by a small water turbine company, that sells their electricity to a larger company for distribution. The company was in dire need of help, as they claimed their systems were already breached, to which the threat modeler was surprised, since this is not ususally the order things go in. He was interested as to why they think their systems have been breached. The water turbine co explained that every individual turbine is controlled by a windows computer of their own, and that their patching cycle had changed from what they had implemented. After investigation the truth came up, very experienced breachers had installed bitcoin miners on the computers, but also provided a better patching cycle for the machines, without affecting the monitoring capabilities of them negatively. They decided to add additional monitoring and security practices to the computers, but still allow the breachers to mine bitcoin using their computers, since they had made the patching cycle better. The threat modeling guy was very confused to this day in the wind turbine co's decision.

This story was a good example of why fix something that is not broken. I think this is still not the way to go since bitcoin mining will strain the hardware of the water turbine computers, and they were already running around the clock to collect diagnostics and monitor the turbines.
- The third and last story was about someone called Snow, who got a passion for hacking after accidentally going to DEF CON and falling in love with it immediately. Only three years later she won the entire DEF CON and was awarded the black badge. The host and Snow go on discussing her personal achievements for a long time, which I found a little tedious, and the story itself was only 5-10mins long. After winning the competition she was getting job offers left and right, but she wanted to go into social engineering. The story tells of her breaching the premises of a company. One day she pulls up at the front desk of the company looking lost and confused and leaning over the reception desk, to try and find any vulnerabilities. She laid eyes on some event being arranged in the next couple of days and went on with her day. Next time she arrives she is dressed in business attire, has her hair done etc. She had also made a fake id badge for this particular event, pretending to be a representative of another company, which the event was for. The receptionist did not even think twice and she was given a guest badge and given a tour of the entire premises, all five floors.

I really enjoyed the story at the end, even though the beginning was tedious, social engineering is something I would be interested in doing myself one day. Human elements are in my opinion much bigger security vulnerabilities than digital ones. Reflectively, I remember working at GE Healthcare and having a lot of security trainings around one time since the security of the company was compromised, and some people outside of the organization had even been given unauthorized key flaps for the premises, "to make their job easier".

### Good security hygiene practices:
- Usage of strong passwords, do not use the same password twice.
- 2 Factor Authentication.
- Regularly update your software, however, sometimes the new versions are shipped with security flaws, these are usually fixed quickly, don't update immediately when a new version is shipped.
- Use VPN.
- Be wary when clicking on links and downloading attachments, if you are unsure definitely do not execute suspicious programs ever without quarantining.
- Use a rfid protected wallet.
- Use cash whenever possible especially with suspicious vendors.
- When you are forced to use debit/credit cards, look for scimmers at ATM's, payment terminals.
- Deny any and all cookies when not absolutely necessary.
- Backup important files to the cloud, also good in case of hardware failure.
- Don't post anything online that can be used against you, background searches are very thorough these days.
- Don't post or send personal details through unsecure channels, and or to unknown people. You can also encrypt files before sending and provide the password in person or through another safe channel.
- Use Antivirus and Anti-Malware Software.
- Lock your devices when unattended.
- Wipe or destroy storage devices after use.

### Make-belief boogie-man
Company: Jorman maarakennus OY, Very experienced one man company run by Jorma. Jorma is an excavator driver and is about to start doing contracting for the finnish defence forces, so he needs to get his threat modeling up to date, and perhaps implement new systems.

#### What are we working on?
- Classified infrastructure, which sometimes no blueprints exist for, or is highly sensitive.
- Reputation, military contracting is very sought after, thus maintaining it is crucial.
- A lot of communication with the military, sharing of sensitive information, project updates, project coordination.
#### What can go wrong?
- Classified information can be hijacked in transit or from compromised systems.
- Physical blueprints are also an object of interest for bad actors, aiming for sabotage or espionage.
- The company fails to act according to the military's standards, damaging Jorma's reputation, and in worst case getting legal repercussions.
- Communication, Miscommunication or insecure channels of communication can lead to leaks or operational failures.

STRIDE:
- Spoofing: Someone could impersonate Jorma or one of the military officials, to access the precious information, mitigation; strong authentication practices are a must for all systems.
- Tampering: Digital and physical blueprints and communication channels could be tampered with to sabotage projects or misguide resources, mitigation; use digital signatures for document integrity, and encrypt sensitive data.
- Repudiation: Log properly, an attacker could manipulate logs to cover their actions, mitigation; use secure logging for significant communications.
- Information disclosure: Sensitive information could be accidentally or intentionally leaked, mitigation; access only on need-to-know basis.
- Denial of service: Attacks could disrupt operations partly or completely, particularly if deadlines are tight, mitigation; Robust security measures in networks, possibly even DDoS protection, maintaint offline backups.
- Elevation of privileges: Attackers might gain higher access levels than intended, mitigation; use intrusion detection systems.
#### What are we going to do about it?
- Get security audits and penetration testing from third parties approved by the military, or the military, Jorma is not a tech genius.
- Employee training, Jorma desperately needs some further it skills.
- Repeated testing for digital vulnerabilities, social engineering scenarios.
#### Did we do a good enough job?
- Did we cover all major components?
- Mitigation strategies.
- Feedback from the stakeholders, Jorma, the military, third party auditors, penetration testers etc.
- Scenario testing.
- Continous threat modelling and evaluation.

## References:
https://terokarvinen.com/information-security/

[Threat modeling manifesto, Braiterman et al 2020](https://www.threatmodelingmanifesto.org/)

[Welcome to the Worlds Shortest Threat Modeling Course, Shostack 2022](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLCVhBqLDKoOOZqKt74QI4pbDUnXSQo0nf)

[Threat Modeling Cheat Sheet, OWASP CheatSheets Series Team 2021](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Threat_Modeling_Cheat_Sheet.html)

[Darknet Diaries Ep 22: Mini-Stories: Vol 1 on spotify](https://open.spotify.com/episode/6MeXRqElCoAe3vMDvoXcvT?si=SUGlvdwXTVSWQdcVmCxDWw)

[Grok 2 Ai](https://x.com/i/grok?focus=1), prompted to give me a better idea of the structure of STRIDE, on the basis of my original text I had written so far.










